Updates to GHCP app mod (#52881)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/porting/github-copilot-app-modernization/scenarios-and-skills.md

Reviewer: Lets delete the lines that mention Aspire

---
title: GitHub Copilot modernization scenarios and skills
description: "Complete reference of all scenarios and built-in migration skills available in GitHub Copilot modernization for .NET, organized by domain."

> ms.topic: concept-article

Reviewer 2: Should this be a reference topic type?

---

# Scenarios and skills reference

GitHub Copilot modernization for .NET helps you modernize through _scenarios_ and _skills_:

- **Scenarios** are end-to-end managed workflows for major upgrade goals, such as upgrading from .NET Framework to .NET 10. Scenarios coordinate the full lifecycle: assessment, planning, and task-by-task execution.
- **Skills** are focused capabilities for specific migration tasks, such as converting EF6 to EF Core or replacing WCF with CoreWCF. Skills activate automatically when the agent encounters relevant code during an upgrade.

The agent supports both C# and Visual Basic projects.

> [!TIP]
> You don't need to memorize names. Describe what you want (_"upgrade to .NET 10"_, _"migrate my EF6 code"_, _"replace Newtonsoft.Json"_) and the agent loads the right scenario and skills automatically. You can also ask: _"What can you help me with?"_

## Scenarios

Scenarios are the agent's top-level upgrade workflows. When you start a conversation, the agent identifies the best scenario for your goal and walks you through it step by step.

| Scenario | What it does | Example prompt |
|---|---|---|

> | [**.NET version upgrade**](#net-version-upgrade) | Upgrades projects from any older .NET version to .NET 8, 9, 10, or later. | _"Upgrade my solution to .NET 10"_ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [**.NET version upgrade**](#net-version-upgrade) | Upgrades projects from any older .NET version to .NET 8 or later. | _"Upgrade my solution to .NET 10"_ |
```

> | [**Aspire integration**](#aspire-integration) | Adds .NET Aspire orchestration for inner-loop development and optional Azure deployment. | _"Add Aspire to my solution"_ |

Reviewer 2: Same comment - is it "Aspire" or ".NET Aspire"?

| [**SDK-style conversion**](#sdk-style-conversion) | Converts legacy project files to modern SDK-style format. | _"Convert my projects to SDK-style"_ |
| [**Newtonsoft.Json migration**](#newtonsoftjson-migration) | Replaces Newtonsoft.Json with System.Text.Json across a solution. | _"Migrate from Newtonsoft.Json"_ |
| [**SqlClient migration**](#sqlclient-migration) | Migrates System.Data.SqlClient to Microsoft.Data.SqlClient. | _"Update SqlClient to the modern package"_ |
| [**Azure Functions upgrade**](#azure-functions-upgrade) | Migrates Azure Functions from in-process to isolated worker model. | _"Upgrade my Azure Functions"_ |
| [**Semantic Kernel to Agents**](#semantic-kernel-to-agents) | Migrates from SK Agents to Microsoft Agents AI Framework. | _"Migrate my SK agents"_ |

For an end-to-end walkthrough, see [Core concepts](concepts.md).

### .NET version upgrade

The most common scenario. Upgrades your projects from any older .NET variant to the latest:

| Source | Target |
|---|---|
| .NET Framework (any version) | .NET 8, 9, 10, or later |

> | .NET Core 1.x, 2.x, 3.x | .NET 8, 9, 10, or later |

Reviewer 2: Same comment about versions...

| .NET 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 | .NET 10 or later |

The agent analyzes your dependency graph, checks NuGet compatibility, identifies breaking changes, and creates a task plan using the best strategy for your solution (bottom-up, top-down, or all-at-once). If your projects need format conversions, the agent handles them automatically as part of the upgrade.

### Aspire integration

> Adds .NET Aspire orchestration to an existing solution. Works with any .NET project targeting `net8.0` or later, including desktop apps (WPF, WinForms, Avalonia, MAUI), web APIs, workers, and console applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adds Aspire orchestration to an existing solution. Works with any .NET project that targets `net8.0` or later, including desktop apps (WPF, WinForms, Avalonia, MAUI), web APIs, workers, and console applications.
```

1. Consolidates AppHost SDK format and migrates config files to unified `aspire.config.json`.
1. Validates the upgraded solution builds and runs correctly.

Supports upgrades from any Aspire version (8.x, 9.x, 13.0) to the latest, handling all intermediate breaking changes automatically.

### SDK-style conversion

Converts legacy `.csproj` and `.vbproj` files to the modern SDK-style format without changing target frameworks. The agent handles the conversion automatically during version upgrades. Run this scenario independently if needed.

### Newtonsoft.Json migration

Replaces `Newtonsoft.Json` with `System.Text.Json` across your solution. Handles custom converters, `[JsonProperty]` attributes, `JObject`/`JArray` usage, and serialization settings.

### SqlClient migration

Migrates from `System.Data.SqlClient` to `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient`. Handles the `Encrypt=true` default behavior change and connection string differences.

### Azure Functions upgrade

Migrates Azure Functions from the in-process hosting model to the isolated worker model with `Program.cs` and `HostApplicationBuilder`. Includes Application Insights migration.

### Semantic Kernel to Agents

> Migrates from Semantic Kernel Agents (`ChatCompletionAgent`, `OpenAIAssistantAgent`) to the Microsoft Agents AI Framework. Updates packages and API patterns.

Reviewer 2: Add a link to MAF docs? Also I think the official name is "Microsoft Agent Framework".

```suggestion
Migrates from Semantic Kernel Agents (`ChatCompletionAgent`, `OpenAIAssistantAgent`) to [Microsoft Agent Framework](/agent-framework/overview/). Updates packages and API patterns.
```

## Migration skills: common

General-purpose migration skills that apply across project types.

| Skill | What it does |
|---|---|
| **Converting to SDK-style** | Converts legacy project files to modern SDK-style format. Uses topological ordering for multi-project solutions. |
| **Migrating Autofac to .NET DI** | Removes Autofac entirely and migrates all registrations to built-in ASP.NET Core dependency injection. |
| **Integrating Autofac with .NET** | Keeps Autofac as the DI container but modernizes its ASP.NET Core integration. |
| **Migrating cryptography namespaces** | Fixes the `System.Security.Cryptography` namespace split for types like `X509Certificate2` and `SignedCms`. |
| **Migrating Newtonsoft to System.Text.Json** | Full migration from `Newtonsoft.Json`. Handles converters, attributes, dynamic types, and settings. |

> | **Migrating Semantic Kernel to Agents** | Migrates Semantic Kernel agent APIs to the Microsoft Agents AI Framework. |

Reviewer 2: Can you do a global find replace for "the Microsoft Agents AI Framework" to "Microsoft Agent Framework"?
